                               Math 465: Homework 1
                           Due: Tuesday, September 8, by 11:59PM

Instructions. Write full and complete solutions to the following problems and submit them on
Gradescope by the deadline. For each problem, explain the reasoning behind your answer; a formula
or numerical answer without justification is not a complete solution.
You may discuss the problems with other students, but you must write up your solutions indepen-
dently and in your own words. You are not allowed to use generative AI tools, Internet searches, or
any other external means to directly obtain a solution. Generative AI tools may also not be used
to proofread your writing or LATEX. If you are unsure about what is or is not permitted, please ask.
At the beginning of your submission, acknowledge any permitted books, notes, or other sources
you consulted, and list the names of any students with whom you discussed the homework.


1. A palindrome is a string whose reversal is identical to the original string. How many strings of
   length n over the alphabet {0, 1, 2} are palindromes?

2. How many ways are there to seat seven distinct people around a circular table if two seatings are
   considered the same whenever every person has the same two neighbors (regardless of whether
   they are left or right neighbors)?

3. Eight distinct books are arranged in a row on a shelf. Two of the books are Pride and Prejudice
   and Emma.

   (a) How many arrangements place these two books next to each other?
   (b) How many arrangements do not place these two books next to each other?
   (c) How many arrangements place Pride and Prejudice somewhere to the left of Emma?

4. How many six-digit positive integers have no repeated digits?

5. Prove that the number of subsets of [n] that have an odd number of elements is 2n−1 .

6. A club has 13 undergraduate members and 7 graduate-student members. How many ways are
   there to form a committee of 5 members containing at least one undergraduate and at least one
   graduate student?

7. Consider the letters in the word
                                           COMBINATORICS.

   (a) How many distinct arrangements of these letters are there?
   (b) How many distinct arrangements have the two copies of the letter C in nonconsecutive
       positions?

8. A class of ten students is divided into five two-person project teams. In how many ways can
   this be done?

                                                 1
 9. A password is an eight-character string formed using uppercase letters and digits. There are 26
    uppercase letters and 10 digits, and repetition is allowed. How many such passwords contain at
    least one digit?

10. Let k ≥ 2. How many strings of length n over an alphabet of k characters have no two consecutive
    characters equal?




                                                  2
